>> The search for signs of
extraterrestrial life is
getting a boost from scientists.
Could this grassroots,
transparent effort
answer the biggest question
in the universe, are we alone?
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The quest to find evidence
of higher life forms
is getting a boost
from higher education.
Harvard Professor
of Science Avi Loeb
has just launched The Galileo
Project, the goal of which
is to bring the
search for, quote,
"Extraterrestrial
Technological Civilizations
from accidental or
anecdotal observations
and legends to the mainstream
of transparent, validated and
systematic scientific research."
Professor Loeb, who published
his controversial book
"Extraterrestrial: The
First Sign of Intelligent
Life," which claims Oumuamua,
the first known interstellar
object to pass through
the solar system,
could be an
extraterrestrial artifact.
His research, coupled
with the recent release
of the US government's report on
unidentified aerial phenomena,
spurred him to action.
>> I decided that the
subject should move away from
the talking points of
politicians and military
personnel to the
realm of science.
At around the same time, the
head of NASA, Bill Nelson,
said, indeed, it's about
time for scientists
to look into this.
So I contacted people under him.
And I said, I'm here
to serve, and I can
help you make your boss happy.
But they haven't
gotten back to me.
And around the same time, a
few individuals approached me
with funds that they
provided to my research,
no strings attached.
At that point, I decided,
then, I can do it myself,
including scientists only,
no government officials.
And the idea is to place
a network of telescopes
that would look at the sky.
The sky is not classified.
Only the government-owned
sensors are classified.
As a result, we can get
the high-quality data
by a network of instruments
that we control.
>> His book on Oumuamua and
his hypothesis that it may have
been an extraterrestrial
artifact was met with
skepticism by many in
the scientific community.
What has been the reaction since
launching The Galileo Project?
>> What is exciting about this
project is that the day after
it was announced, I received
thousands of emails from people
that are excited about
contributing to the project,
both scientifically
and financially.
And this illustrates
two points--
one, that the subject is of
great interest to the public,
and young people will
be attracted to science
if we define it as
part of the mainstream.
And the second is
that new funds can
be brought to pursue science.
On both counts, I see it
as a win-win proposition.
And we will learn
something new no matter
what, because even if Oumuamua
was a hydrogen iceberg,
a natural object that
we've never seen before,
we will learn that there are
nurseries making such objects
that we have never imagined.
And even if unidentified
aerial phenomena
are some exotic events
in the atmosphere,
we will again learn something
new about our atmosphere
that we didn't know before.
And in either case,
even if it's not
extraterrestrial technology,
we will advance our knowledge.
And so getting
additional evidence
is obviously a
win-win proposition.
>> The Galileo Project plans
to use off-the-shelf technology
and, to remain transparent,
will not be funded by any
government.
>> There is no
government funding.
And we are not planning to use
classified data, because that
would limit our freedom in
terms of making our data open
to the public.
When you tell a kid
what the truth is,
a kid often refuses
to believe that
and tries to get the
information on his or her own.
And science allows us to
maintain our childhood
curiosity and basically
collect new data.
Science is about
reproducibility of results.
So we should be
able to see if there
is anything unusual in our sky.
>> What would be the ultimate
find for the scientists
involved with The
Galileo Project?
>> Unidentified objects
may have been a mixed bag.
Maybe most of them have
some mundane explanations,
natural explanations.
But even if one belongs to an
extraterrestrial technological
civilization, that would have
a huge impact on society.
It will change the way we
view ourself in the universe.
It will change our
relations with each other,
because very often,
we are engaged
in actions that are
trying to demonstrate
that we are superior
relative to other people.
And that would make
little sense if there
is an advanced civilization
that is far more superior to us.
Moreover, it will change our
theological and philosophical
beliefs.
Altogether, there is
no bigger question
in science than this one.
Are we the smartest kid
on our cosmic block?
>> To place hundreds
of independently-owned
and controlled telescopes
around the world,
Avi Loeb says The Galileo
Project needs to raise about 10
times the amount of
money they have received.
The project has just
begun, and they hope soon
to identify what or
who is in our sky.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.